WinForms Preview 2 Release Notes (#9787)
dotnet/core: release-notes/10.0/preview/preview2/winforms.md

# Windows Forms in .NET 10 Preview 2 - Release Notes

.NET 10 Preview 2 includes new Windows Forms features & enhancements:

- [Clipboard Code Sharing with WPF](#clipboard-code-sharing-with-wpf)
- [New System.Design Editors](#new-systemdesign-editors)
- [Quality Enhancements](#quality-enhancements)

## Windows Forms updates in .NET 10

- [What's new in Windows Forms in .NET 10](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/desktop/winforms/whats-new/net100) documentation.

> - [Issues List for Windows Forms in .NET 10 Preview 2](https://github.com/dotnet/winforms/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20milestone%3A%2210.0%20Preview1%22%20)

Reviewer: Please update the label in this query

## Clipboard Code Sharing with WPF

>  We are unifying how WinForms and WPF handle the Clipboard, refining behaviors introduced in Preview 1. Over the course of Preview 2 the WinForms team has refactored much of the Clipboard code to a new location in order to make it shareable with WPF. By sharing and consolidating Clipboard code across both frameworks, we aim to enhance consistency, stability, and overall reliability for .NET WindowsDesktio scenarios. We have also continued to enhance the Clipboard APIs introduced in Preview 1 with tweaks to the behavior in certain edge-cases.

Reviewer 2: Typo in "WindowsDesktio"?

Author: Yes, great catch!

> ## New System.Design Editors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## New System.Design UITypeEditors

```

> We’ve introduced several new editors in the `System.Design` namespace, giving developers more robust options for creating designer applications. New editors include `ToolStripCollectionEditor` and several editors related to the `DataGridView` control.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We’ve ported several UITypeEditors in the `System.Windows.Forms.Design` namespace from the .NET Framework code base, giving developers more robust options for creating designer applications. New editors include `ToolStripCollectionEditor` and several editors related to the `DataGridView` control. These editors will now be discoverable by the PropertyGrid and Designer Actions Panel. 

```
These editors are not public, I wanted to explain why they are not visible in the public surface diff.

## Quality Enhancements

> We’ve expanded our unit test coverage and addressed a variety of bug fixes, continuing to focus on delivering high quality in Windows Forms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We’ve expanded our unit test coverage and fixed a variety of bugs, continuing to focus on delivering high quality in Windows Forms.

```
